Add pulp ansible 0.2.0 announcement (#294)
pulp/pulpproject.org: _posts/2020-08-19-pulp-ansible-0.2.0-is-generally-available.md

---

> title: Pulp Container 2.0.0 is Generally Available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Pulp Ansible 0.2.0 is Generally Available
```

Author: That's some tasty copy pasta right there. 
I had copied over a header.

author: Melanie Corr
tags:
  - release
---

# Pulp Ansible 0.2.0 Release Announcement

The Pulp team is pleased to announce the release of the Pulp Ansible 0.2.0 plugin.

## About the Pulp Ansible content plugin

If you’re an Ansible user and do not want to host your private content on Ansible Galaxy, you can add the Pulp Ansible plugin to Pulp. You can then mirror the public Ansible content that you require and use Pulp as an on-premise platform to manage and distribute a scalable blend of public and private Ansible roles and collections across your organization.

> With the Pulp Ansible plugin, you can complete the following actions via the Pulp API. Ansible content includes both roles and collections:

Reviewer: "actions" could be a little bit more high level as "workflows"

* Mirror a subset of Ansible content on-premise
* Mirror all of Ansible Galaxy’s content on-premise
* Store private Ansible content on-premise

> * Install Ansible content from pulp_ansible using the ansible-galaxy CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Distribute Ansible content from pulp_ansible to be installable with the ansible-galaxy CLI
```

Author: The suggested update is hard for me to understand. 

Would something like this work:

* Distribute Ansible content from `pulp_ansible` and perform actions with the ansible-galaxy CLI

Reviewer: The title to this list states that you can do stuff with the rest api. And there you can create a distribution (that is roughly a URL to serve content).
After you did that, you can use the `ansible-galaxy` command on any consuming machine to install content from this distribution.

Author: This is so clear that even I understand. Thank you :D

* Version Ansible content over time and rollback if necessary

> * Support for the new multi-role content type from Galaxy

Reviewer: There is not an action in this. May be it should be "as well as the new multi-role type" in the sentence above.

Author: I will split these into workflows and features maybe?

For more information, see the [roles](https://pulp-ansible.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows/roles.html) and [collections](https://pulp-ansible.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows/collections.html) workflows in the Pulp Ansible documentation.

## Release Features

In this release, which is compatible with Pulp 3.6, the following functionality has been added:

* Users can now associate a remote with a repository and automatically use this remote when syncing the repository. [#7194](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/7194)

> As part of this release, artifacts are no longer used when importing collections [#6718](https://pulp.plan.io/issues/6718)

Reviewer: Is this "temporary artifacts are no longer persisted"?
In the end, i sure hope that an artifact is used to represent the collection. ;)

Reviewer: ~~Is the list bullet missing here?~~
Forget that!

If you’re an Ansible user and do not want to host your private content on Ansible Galaxy, you can add the Pulp Ansible plugin to Pulp. You can then mirror the public Ansible content that you require and use Pulp as an on-premise platform to manage and distribute a scalable blend of public and private Ansible roles and collections across your organization.

With the Pulp Ansible plugin, you can complete the following workflows via the Pulp API. Ansible content includes both roles and collections:

* Mirror a subset of Ansible content on-premise
* Mirror all of Ansible Galaxy’s content on-premise
* Create a distribution and use the `ansible-galaxy` command to install content from this distribution

For more information, see the [roles](https://pulp-ansible.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows/roles.html) and [collections](https://pulp-ansible.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows/collections.html) workflows in the Pulp Ansible documentation.

The Pulp Ansible plugin also has the following features:

> * Store private Ansible content on-premise

Reviewer: @bmbouter Do we support this via `ansible-galaxy push`?
I think that would be worth mentioning.

Reviewer 2: Yes we support uploading using `ansible-galaxy collection publish`. The `ansible-galaxy role --help` doesn't have an upload capability in the client, so we only support the uploading of collections.

Reviewer 2: There is no role upload/publish here: https://pulp-ansible.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows/roles.html
There are collection publish docs here: https://pulp-ansible.readthedocs.io/en/latest/workflows/collections.html
